SMOTE Algorithm 
	used often for datasets 

Introduction:
The final team project will evaluate the application of predictive modeling techniques introduced in this course. You will be assigned to a group by your instructor. You and your teammate(s) will work closely to find a dataset (Healthcare, Biomedical, Life Sciences, or Biology topics are recommended in ADS 503), clean and pre-process it, and perform a comprehensive predictive modeling project on the data using R. It is strongly recommended that you and your team use and practice GitHub Click for more options for version control and collaboration during this project. 
Project Timeline:
Module 2 (by the end of Week 2): The course instructor will group students into teams of two to three members.
Module 5 (by the end of Week 5): Each team should select and introduce a dataset. The team representative will need to submit the "Team Project Status Update Form." 
Module 7 (by the end of Week 7): Each team should submit the following deliverables for the course project in the final week:
One 10-15 minute video presentation by all team members.
One PDF document containing a technical report explanation for analyses, interpretations (10-12 page), and code (Appendix).
One PDF or PPT document (at most 5 slides) containing slides with executive summary of the project for a nontechnical audience.
It is critical to note that no extensions will be given for any of the final projects due dates for any reason, and final projects submitted after the final due date will not be graded.
Project Datasets:
You will be responsible to find a dataset for this final team project. Several free data resources’ links are provided within the Resources page on the MS-ADS GitHub website.
Requirements: 
Divide the work equally between the team members for the following steps, and everyone needs to code. You are expected to write high-quality, efficient, and readable code in R. This project requires that you and your team conduct a video presentation, submit a technical report, and create an executive summary PowerPoint presentation.
For your video presentation:
Give a 10-15 minute presentation based on your technical report.
Include a technical explanation of:
The clearly defined problem statement and data description
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
Data pre-processing
Data splitting
Model building strategies
Model performance and hyperparameter tuning
Results and final model selection
Optional: Demonstration of R Shiny web application of the solution
Discussion and conclusion
Your audience for this video is your data science peers/technical audience with knowledge of data science methods and techniques.
For your technical report:
Include a clearly defined problem statement.
Describe your analysis of the data.
Include a detailed solution.
You can include graphs and output tables, only if you use them in your discussion.
This section is intended for a statistically literate/technical audience and must be written in a clear, organized fashion.
You can use the case studies from Chapters 10 and 17 on how to build your predictive modeling analysis.
You can organize the report into subsections such as:
Problem statement and justification for the proposed approach
EDA (graphical and non-graphical representations of relationships between response variable and predictor variables)
Data wrangling and pre-processing (handling of missing values, outliers, correlated features, etc.)
Data splitting (training, validation, and test sets)
Model strategies (describing main research questions and appropriate analytics methods)
Validation and testing (model tuning and evaluation)
Results and final model selection (performance measures etc.)
Discussion and conclusions (address the problem statement and suggestions could go beyond the scope of the course)
Appendix (reproducible R code)
For your executive summary PowerPoint:
Should be no longer than 5 slides.
Introduce the problem statement.
Discuss the solutions that were explored.
Describe the conclusions of your data analysis to a non-technical audience.
Should be intelligible to a person who does not know predictive modeling techniques.
Suppose you are submitting a report to a Director/VP/Executive-level audience who are not familiar with statistical terminology and predictive modeling methods. This can be seen as the executive summary/introduction of your report.
You will want to present your analysis like a story instead of a technical report. You should articulate your final model results for everyone to understand.
Project Deliverables and Submission Format:
Prepare a recorded video presentation of your project (slides are needed for business audience) using a screencasting tool, such as Screencast-o-matic or Zoom to record your screen and provide a voice narration. Ensure that the sound quality of your video is good and each member presents an equal portion of the presentation. Export the video file to an mp4 format.
You may use any recording software you wish. You may want to utilize Screencast-o-matic which is integrated with Blackboard and linked below. You can access it using your USDOne account login. View the Recording Video Presentation and Submission Guidelines for MS-ADS Students Click for more options guide for additional recording instructions.
Implement the project in R language, using R Markdown. Within the R code, import all packages used for the project in the first cell, use code cells for code and comments, and use markdown cells for headings and descriptions. Generate a PDF document for submission with code, comments, and results within the notebook. Attach this document as an Appendix to your technical report. 
Write and submit your technical report in APA 7 style (here is a Sample Professional Paper Click for more options ). The technical report (without Appendices), including text and selected tables/graphs, should be 10-12 pages. 
Prepare and submit your Summary Executive slides in PPT or PDF format.
Submit the 10-15 minute presentation mp4 video file, technical report PDF document, and executive summary PowerPoint/PDF slides on the final team project submission page of Blackboard. You will use the naming convention Final Project Report-Team Number.pdf (e.g., Final Project Report-Team 1.pdf and Executive Summary Presetation-Team 1.pptx). Only one member of your team will need to submit these deliverables.
You will submit the peer evaluation form individually.